---
title: 'Sample selection'
date: 2020-12-27
permalink: /posts/2020/12/blog-post-1/
tags:
  - DID
  - RDD
  - Sample selection
---

Stimulating Consumption at Low Budget: Evidence from a Large-scale Policy Experiment amid the COVID-19 Pandemic
======

DID+PSM
======
The paper uses DID method to estimate the causal effect of digital coupon on excess consumption. This paper mainly focuses on three waves employed in Hangzhou and construct the treatment group as randomly 100,000 consumers who successfully obtained the coupon packets, and control group as the same size from those who attempted but failed to obtain the coupon due to limited offering. They further apply the propensity score matching (PSM) method to construct a more comparable sample.

Problem
------
Considering the design of these government-issued coupons, there are at least three categories of residents in the control group: (1) those who do not use Alipay (for example, the elder people); (2) those who use Alipay but did not apply the coupon; (3) those who applied but failed to obtain any coupon. Considering the dataset was obtained from Alipay, I think the authors may not have the information of type (1) people. What’s more, they “construct the control group as those who attempted but failed to acquire
the coupon due to limited offerings”. Hence, type (2) are not included. I admit that the control, including only type (3) people should be more comparable with the treatment, but they cannot fully represent the whole residents. In other words, we cannot more precisely estimate the overall effects of the program. Actually, even the type (3) people are not very comparable with the treatment group, as the summary statistic show, but I think the PSM method is an acceptable solution.

Alternative method RDD
------
A better strategy to address the selection concern would be employing regression discontinuity design (RDD). The time differences between the last few consumers who successfully obtained the coupons and the first few consumers who lost the coupons are likely to be small, suggesting that these consumers are likely to be similar in spending propensity and other characteristics. This could provide a more comparable sample to test whether the higher spending of the treatment group is caused by the coupon program rather than unobservable differences between the two groups.
